FINAL EXAMINATION
 TROUBLESHOOTING OF COMPUTER SYSTEMS

ESSAY ABOUT THE SUBJECT
INSTRUCTOR: ENGR. MAX ANGELO PERIN


JOB CHRISTIAN LUZON TOLONGHARI

My experience to my one of the subjects in this semester which is the Troubleshooting of Computer Systems in my fourth year here in Bohol Island State University- Main Campus has been very well. What we did in the first months of the semester was discuss the different types of computer systems and its troubleshooting techniques. It was really great because we worked as a team of two. My teammate was Lee Alden Baguio and our topic was power supply. We used the powerpoint presentation to give visual aids to our classmates and it seemed like they understood quite well what we were talking about. All of our classmates discussed each of our respective topics. We were group 10.  After that we had quizzes and then after that we had a midterm examination. It was really fun because the teacher was also accommodating and responsive of the queries that the students were trying to ask about. The students were also trying their best to get to the topics so that they could be able to know more about computer systems. This subject may sound simple but not if you would really dig deeper into this. Troubleshooting of Computer Systems is a crucial topic that any aspiring Computer Enthusiasts should be familiar of. In these days, whenever normal people can see students studying for Computer-related courses, they can eventually think that those students are knowledgeable of stuff about computer systems. So, this is where this subject comes in. Through this subject, the students enrolled in it will be helped to address the issue which makes them unable to answer queries of civilians pertaining to technical terms like for example , the ever simple mouse.  When someone’s computer mouse gets broken he would immediately consult someone knowledgeable about technical stuff. If the student is enrolled in this subject, and if he is attentive with the discussions and if the instructor performed well during his discussions, then the student can help the person instead of him, going to the professional expert. He can even make money off of it if the student wants to. Or, he can also help his family at home when it comes to technical stuff. However, civilians should also consider that like research, students enrolled in Computer-related studies like computer engineering have scopes and limitations. With that being said, we the students of this course is not always able to help them in all of the technological problems. For example, some people think that we can fix televisions or radios rightly, or the worst a broken really old computer set. They should also consider the fact that we have limitations and it includes fixing television(not if you really study those stuff). Plus, each piece of device may vary from the other depending on its versions, timeline of release and all  so troubleshooting them could really take a huge amount of effort of researching, studying and time consumption. 

So in retrospect, this troubleshooting subject is just the start of something bigger ahead of us and I am satisfied with the subject. We may not have covered all the topics, I assume, but the topics we got are enough for us to stay informed of technical terms that we can use in our daily lives. Anyway, we are still in a continuous world of studying so we can learn over time. It just takes an ample amount of time, work, patience, money of course, and above all, interest.
….. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .. . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . My experience to my one of the subjects in this semester which is the Troubleshooting of Computer Systems in my fourth year here in Bohol Island State University- Main Campus has been very well. What we did in the first months of the semester was discuss the different types of computer systems and its troubleshooting techniques. It was really great because we worked as a team of two. My teammate was Lee Alden Baguio and our topic was power supply. We used the powerpoint presentation to give visual aids to our classmates and it seemed like they understood quite well what we were talking about. All of our classmates discussed each of our respective topics. We were group 10.  After that we had quizzes and then after that we had a midterm examination. It was really fun because the teacher was also accommodating and responsive of the queries that the students were trying to ask about. The students were also trying their best to get to the topics so that they could be able to know more about computer systems. This subject may sound simple but not if you would really dig deeper into this. Troubleshooting of Computer Systems is a crucial topic that any aspiring Computer Enthusiasts should be familiar of. In these days, whenever normal people can see students studying for Computer-related courses, they can eventually think that those students are knowledgeable of stuff about computer systems. So, this is where this subject comes in. Through this subject, the students enrolled in it will be helped to address the issue which makes them unable to answer queries of civilians pertaining to technical terms like for example , the ever simple mouse.  When someone’s computer mouse gets broken he would immediately consult someone knowledgeable about technical stuff. If the student is enrolled in this subject, and if he is attentive with the discussions and if the instructor performed well during his discussions, then the student can help the person instead of him, going to the professional expert. He can even make money off of it if the student wants to. Or, he can also help his family at home when it comes to technical stuff. However, civilians should also consider that like research, students enrolled in Computer-related studies like computer engineering have scopes and limitations. With that being said, we the students of this course is not always able to help them in all of the technological problems. For example, some people think that we can fix televisions or radios rightly, or the worst a broken really old computer set. They should also consider the fact that we have limitations and it includes fixing television(not if you really study those stuff). Plus, each piece of device may vary from the other depending on its versions, timeline of release and all  so troubleshooting them could really take a huge amount of effort of researching, studying and time consumption. 

So in retrospect, this troubleshooting subject is just the start of something bigger ahead of us and I am satisfied with the subject. We may not have covered all the topics, I assume, but the topics we got are enough for us to stay informed of technical terms that we can use in our daily lives. Anyway, we are still in a continuous world of studying so we can learn over time. It just takes an ample amount of time, work, patience, money of course, and above all, interest.
….. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  
